# Git & GitHub Tutorial
- [Linux commands](#linux-commands)
- [Literature review](#literature-review)
- [Local repository](#local-repository)
- [Remote repository](#remote-repository)
- [Git show](#git-show)
- [Git checkout](#git-checkout)
- [Undoing](#undoing)
- [Help in git](#help-in-git)




# Linux commands
- [Current directory](#current-directory)
- [Change directory](#change-directory)
  - [Navigate back folder](#navigate-back-folder)
  - [Navigate forward folder](#navigate-forward-folder)
- [Make new folder](#make-new-folder)
- [List current folder contents](#list-current-folder-contents)
- [Make new file](#make-new-file)
- [Clear terminal](#clear-terminal)

## Current directory
Write about it.
```bash
pwd
```

## Change directory
```bash
cd [options]
```
Options:
- `<root>` : 
- `..` : Navigate back folder.
- `../..` : Navigate twice back folder.
- `<folder_name>` : Navigate forward folder.


## Make new folder
Write about it.
```bash
mkdir [options]
```
Options:
- `<folder_name>` : Create new folder.
- 
## List current folder contents
Write about it.
```bash
ls [options]
```
Options:
- `notthing` : List file(s) in current directory.

## Make new file
```bash
touch [options]
```
Options:
- `<file_name>+<format+name>` : Create file with desired format.

## Clear terminal
```bash
clear [options]
```
Options:
- `nothing` : clear terminal display.







# Literature review
- [Working tree](#working-tree)
- [Commit](#commit)
- [Stage](#stage)
- [Tracked/Untracked file](#trackeduntracked-file)
- [Modifed file](#modifed-file)
- [Nothing added to commit](#nothing-added-to-commit)
- [Changes not staged for commit](#changes-not-staged-for-commit)
- [HEAD](#head)
- [Local](#local)
- [Origin](#origin)
- [Remote](#remote)
- [Both modified](#both-modified)
- [Clone](#clone)
- [Ahead of origin/master](#ahead-of-originmaster)
- [Behind of origin/master](#behind-of-originmaster)
- [Your branch is up to date](#your-branch-is-up-to-date)
- [Origin/master & master](#originmaster--master)
- [Tag](#tag)


## Working tree
* The working tree, or working directory, consists of files that 
you are currently working on.  
* You can think of a working tree as a file system where you can
view and modify files.
## Commit
* save your file/files that put in stage, and after commit, 
git consider this file/files as a HEAD file. You will be 
availble call every commit in future.
* Git considers each commit change point or "save point". 
It is a point in the project you can go back to if you find 
a bug, or want to make a change.
## Stage
* stage is a place that, 1. untracked files put in stage in 
order to in commit phase, tracked by git. or 2. 
modified/deleted/... files that already tracked by git, 
put in stage in order to save changed in commit phase.
## Tracked/Untracked file
* you have NEW file/files that if contents modified, git can't 
sense alterations.
* Untracked basically means that Git sees a file you didn't have 
in the previous snapshot (commit), and which hasn't yet been 
staged.
* Untracked files are most of the time files you don't want to
be controlled, because for example they are generated by your 
compiler.
* Tracked - files that Git knows about and are added to the 
local repository.
* Untracked - files that are in your working directory, but 
not added to the local repository.
## Modifed file
* git always check tracked file/files,when file/files contents has 
been changed, git label it/these to modified file.
## Nothing added to commit
* no file/files are in stage to commit.
## Changes not staged for commit
* your tracked file/files has been modified, and NOT yet put in 
stage to commit.
## HEAD
* HEAD is last/final commit (last saved alterations).
## Local
* local meaning is in your personal computer.
* EX:  
local commit : a written commit that has been write in your computer and has
not yet push in remote repository.
## Origin
* origin" is the name of the remote repository where you want to 
publish you commits. By convention, the default remote repository 
is called "origin", but you can work with several remotes 
(with different names) as the same time. More information here.
## Remote
* A remote repository in Git, also called a remote, is a Git 
repository that's hosted on the Internet or another network.
## Both modified
* recommend you : commit and merege early early!
* recomend you : pull repository, and edited it and commit and 
push it.
## Clone
* duplicate and download everything of remote repository
when you use command clone in git, git create new folder with 
name as same as name of remote repo in github and copy and 
download everything and put it them on this folder.
## Ahead of origin/master
## Behind of origin/master
* when you fetch remote repo on your local repo, this guide say 
you, remote repo have new commits so that you have not these 
commits in your local repository. and you "behind of 
origin/master" this meaning that, you are NOT update rather to 
origin remote on master branch.
## Your branch is up to date
* when pull (fetch and merge) remote branch with your local branch
this guide showed.
## Origin/master & master
* "remote name"/"remote branch name" & "local branch name"
## Tag
* Git has the ability to tag specific points in a repository’s 
history as being important.







# Local repository
- [Directory](#directory)
- [Initialize git](#initialize-git)
- [Display status](#display-status)
- [Track / Stage](#track--stage)
- [Save alterations](#save-alterations)
- [Display commits](#display-commits)
- [Display differences](#display-differences)
- [Branches](#branches)
  - [Checkout in branch](#checkout-in-branch)
- [Merging](#merging)
- [Tagging](#tagging)
- [Checkout in tagging](#checkout-in-tagging)

## Directory
Write about it.

## Initialize git
Count current directory to git and git folder create in 
current directory:
```bash
git init
```

## Display status
Summery alterations in some frequent phrases:
```bash
git status [options]
```
Options:
- `--short` : Summery commit shortly
> **Frequent phrases:**    
Tracked file/files   
Untracked file/files   
Staged file/files   
Unstaged file/files

**NOTE:**  
`git status` show only just alterations in **local repository** and not 
show alterations in **remote repository**.
This means that, if anyone had been changed some file(s) of **remote
repository (GitHub)**, `git status` would not show it to you.

## Track / Stage
This command has two performance:
  * Track new file/files that not yet added to git.
  * Stage file/files that has been tracked by git.
```bash
git add [options]
```
Options:
  * `<file_name>` : Stage/Track file(s)
  * `*.py` : Stage/Track all `.py` file(s)
  * `--all` / `-A` : Stage/Track all file(s)
  * `modules*` : Stage/Track all file(s) that name start with `module`

## Save alterations
Save(Commit) your staged/tracked file(files) with message:
```bash
git commit -m "<your message>"
```
**NOTE:**  
Message is require.

## Display commits
Show all commits:
```bash
git log
```
**NOTE:** If list of commit is long, you can press `q` to exit.

## Display differences
Write about it.
```bash
git diff [options]
```
Options:
  * `<nothing>`:
  * `HEAD`:
  * `--staged`:
  
## Branches
Write about branches.
```bash
git branch [options]
```
Options:
  * `nothing`: Show current branch
  * `<branch_name>`: Create new branch
  * `-d <branch_name>`: Delete branch

### Checkout in branch
Write about checkout
```bash
git checkout <branch_name>
```

## Merging
Write about merging
```bash
git merge <branch_name>
```
**NOTE:**  
Sure that when you merge, your current branch in 
main branch.

## Tagging
Write about it 
```bash
git tag [options] -m "<tag_message>"
```
Options:
  - `nothing` : Show all tags yoy have.
  - `-a <tag_name>` : Tag **HEAD** commit (last commit)

**NOTE:**  
`a` is annotation tag, if you didn't write it, you tag in lightweight tag.
  - `-a <tag_name> <desired_commit>` :
  
### Checkout in tagging
Switch to desired tag.
```bash
git checkout <tag_name>
```

# Remote repository
- [Remote](#remote)
- [Push to remote repo](#push-to-remote-repo)
- [Pull to local repo](#pull-to-local-repo)
  - [Fetch](#fetch)
  - [Merge](#merge)
  - [Pull](#pull)
- [Differences](#differences)
- [Clone to local repo](#clone-to-local-repo)
- [Branches](#branches)


## Remote
Write about remote

**NOTE:**  
you can add multiple remotes and work with them at the same 
time.
```bash
git remote [options]
```
Options:
- `nothing` : Show remotes (GitHub url) that you wish to
push/pull your local repo commits to it).
- `add <remote_name> <remote_url>` : Add new remote. This command simply
means **you are adding the location of your remote repository where 
    you wish to push/pull your files**.
(e.g. `git remote add asli "https://github.com/alirezakhodabakhsh/
hello"`)
- `rm <remote_name>` : Remove specific remote.

## Push to remote repo
If you had **new** commit(s) on your **local remote**, you can push these
to **remote repo**:
```bash
git push [options]
```
Options:
- `<remote_name> <branch_name>` :
- `<remote_name> --delete <branch_name>` : Delete remote branch
- `<remote_name> <tag_name>` : Push specific tag to your remote repo.
- 

**NOTE:**  
In this case, `git status` display:
> Ahead of origin/master

This means that, you have new commit(s) than when you had pulled
remote repo.

**NOTE:**   
Recommend that **current branch** set on **<branch_name>** that you want 
to push it (**local repo branch** and **remote repo branch**
be as same as).

**NOTE:**  
If **<branch_name>** wasn't there in **remote repository**, **new branch**
has been created.

## Pull to local repo
**Pull** is combination of **Fetch** and **Merge**.

### Fetch
Write about it.
```bash
git fetch [options]
```
Options:
- `<remote_name>` :

### Merge
Write about it 
```bash
git merge [options]
```
Options:
- `<remote_name>/<remote_branch_name>` : Merge **remote branch**
- with your **local branch**.

### Pull
Write about it.
```bash
git pull [options]
```
Options:
- `<remote_name> <remote_branch_name>` : Fetch and Merge 
respectively from **remote branch name** on **local branch name.**

**NOTE:**  
Recommended, current local branch as same as repo branch.

## Differences
Write about it.
```bash
git diff [options]
```
Options:
- `<remote_name> <remote_branch_name>` :Show difference master
branch (remote repo) with master branch (local repo).
- 
## Clone to local repo
Clone remote repo:
```bash
git clone <remote_url>
```
## Branches
Show local and remote branches.
```bash
git branch -a
```
**NOTE:**  
If you pull and up-to-date **local repo**, **new remote branches** 
wouldn't put in your **local branches**.
So you should use `git checkout <remote branch>` and use again 
`git pull` to up-to-date.


# Conflict in Git/GitHub
- [Conflict in local repo](#conflict-in-local-repo)
- [Conflict in remote repo](#conflict-in-remote-repo)
## Conflict in local repo
When you create new branch, you duplicate **master branch** files and
work on them.
At this time, if someone (you) change **master branch** file(s) and
commit changes, after that, you merge **branch** with **master branch**, 
you **get conflict**. 
In this time, you must get rid of this conflict. 
and then merge and commit.
> **RECOMMEND:**  
> When you create **new branch**, don't edit **master branch** until 
> wouldn't merge it.

## Conflict in remote repo
You clone/pull remote repository and modify it, at same time, someone 
(you) clone/pull it and modify it **simultaneously** (modified in GitHub).
Another one (you) push new commits on remote repo and **after that** you 
push your commits.
In this time, git get into the conflict.


# Git show
Write about it.
```bash
git show [options]
```
Options:
- `<commit_key>` : Put in `git log`
- `<desired_tag>` :


# Git checkout
Summery all checkout application in git.
```bash
git checkout [options]
```
Options:
- `<branch_name>` : Switch from current branch to desired branch.
- `<file_name>` : Ignore all alteration that has been done on
file(s).
- `<tag_name>` : Switch to desired tag.
- `'<commit_code>'` : Switch to desired commit.

# Undoing

- [Unstage File](#unstage-file)
- [???](#???)
- [.gitignore](#gitignore)
- [Ignore alterations](#ignore-alterations)


## Unstage File
Unstage file(s) already has been staged.
```bash
git reset
```

## ???
Write about this
```bash
git rm [options]
```
Options:
- `<file_name>` : Delete specific file or files from git.

## .gitignore
Write about this

## Ignore alterations
Ignore all alteration that has been done on
file(s).
```bash
git checkout <file_name>
```
> **RECOMENDED:**  
> Utilize this command, when you're working on file, and you 
> wouldn't reach to valuable commit and want to back to last 
> commit.






# Help in git
Write about this
```bash
git <command> -help
```